README.md, before:

# OmniDev

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/slaguardia/omnidev?style=social)](https://github.com/slaguardia/omnidev)

A single developer bot orchestration runtime that spans many workspaces, adapts to user-defined workflows, runs anywhere, and uses the user's own Claude Code subscription for intelligence and execution.

## What is OmniDev?

OmniDev is a **developer automation platform** and **workflow orchestration runtime**. It provides a web UI for managing Git workspaces and integrating with Claude Code CLI for AI-powered code analysis and editing.

| Attribute       | Description                                                    |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Category        | Developer automation platform / workflow orchestration runtime |
| Bot Model       | One bot identity spanning many workspaces                      |
| Execution Scope | Workspace-scoped behavior, not bot-scoped                      |
| AI Integration  | Bring your own Claude Code subscription                        |
| Deployment      | Cloud, VPS, or local — runs anywhere                           |

### What OmniDev is NOT

- Not a SaaS AI product
- Not a multi-bot system
- Not an AI model provider
- Not a Claude Code replacement

## Claude Code Dependency

OmniDev installs and orchestrates the publicly available Claude Code package. Users must have their own Claude account and active subscription. Claude Code is a product of Anthropic PBC and is not affiliated with this project.

### Responsibility Boundaries

| OmniDev Handles                | Claude Code Handles    |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------- |
| Workflow orchestration         | Code understanding     |
| Event handling (GitHub/GitLab) | Command execution      |
| Workspace scoping              | Research and reasoning |
| Permission boundaries          | Repo-level operations  |
| Integration lifecycle          |                        |

## Features

- **Repository Management** — Clone and manage GitHub/GitLab repositories in isolated workspaces
- **AI-Powered Analysis** — Integrate with Claude Code for intelligent code review and suggestions
- **Natural Language Queries** — Ask questions about codebases in plain English
- **Workspace Isolation** — Secure temporary workspace management
- **Branch Automation** — Automatic branch creation for edits with PR/MR support
- **Deploy Anywhere** — Cloud, VPS, or local Docker deployment

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.0.0 or higher
- pnpm
- Git
- Claude Code CLI (users must have their own Claude subscription)
- Docker (optional, for containerized deployment)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/slaguardia/omnidev.git
cd omnidev
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
pnpm install
```

3. Start the application:

```bash
pnpm dev
```

4. Open `http://localhost:3000` and configure through the Settings tab.

## Configuration

### UI-Based Configuration (Recommended)

All configuration is managed through the web interface in the Settings tab:

**Required:**

- GitLab Token or GitHub Token
- Claude API Key (your own Anthropic API key)

**Optional:**

- GitLab URL (default: `https://gitlab.com`)
- Workspace limits and logging level

### Environment Variables

For environment-based configuration, copy the example file:

```bash
cp env.example .env
```

Required variables:

```env
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=your-nextauth-secret-here
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
```

Optional variables (also configurable via UI):

```env
GITLAB_TOKEN=your_gitlab_token_here
GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_token_here
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your_claude_api_key_here
```

See [docs/ENVIRONMENT.md](docs/ENVIRONMENT.md) for complete documentation.

## Docker Deployment

OmniDev is designed to run anywhere — cloud infrastructure, VPS, or local environments.

### Deployment Modes

| Service             | Purpose                                    | Command                                              |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `workflow-app`      | Full application with auth and dashboard   | `docker compose up -d --build workflow-app`          |
| `workflow-showcase` | Read-only demo mode (no auth, no dashboard) | `docker compose --profile showcase up workflow-showcase --build` |
| `workflow-dev`      | Development with hot reload                | `docker compose up -d --build workflow-dev`          |

- **workflow-app**: Production deployment. Includes authentication, dashboard, and all features. Use this for self-hosting.
- **workflow-showcase**: Public demo mode. Hides auth and dashboard, shows only documentation. Use this for publishing a read-only demo.
- **workflow-dev**: Development mode with hot reload. Bind-mounts source code for fast iteration.

### Quick Start with Docker

```bash
docker compose up -d --build workflow-app
```

Access the application at `http://localhost:3000`.

### Docker Features

- Ubuntu-based for full Claude Code compatibility
- Multi-stage build for optimized image size
- Runs as non-root user for security
- Workspace data persistence via volumes
- Built-in health checks

### Manual Docker Commands

```bash
docker build -t omnidev .

docker run -p 3000:3000 \
  -v omnidev_workspaces:/app/workspaces \
  omnidev
```

See [docs/DOCKER.md](docs/DOCKER.md) for detailed Docker documentation.

## Architecture

### Core Components

| Component                | Purpose                               |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------- |
| Workspace Manager        | CRUD for git workspaces               |
| Repository Manager       | Git clone/branch operations           |
| Claude Code Orchestrator | Execute Claude Code CLI               |
| Job Queue                | Async job execution                   |
| GitHub/GitLab API        | PR/MR creation, repository operations |

### Type System

The project uses branded types for type safety:

```typescript
type WorkspaceId = string & { readonly brand: unique symbol };
type GitUrl = string & { readonly brand: unique symbol };
type FilePath = string & { readonly brand: unique symbol };
```

Operations that can fail return `Result<T, E>`:

```typescript
type Result<T, E = Error> = { success: true; data: T } | { success: false; error: E };
```

## Extensibility

Users may:

- Shell into the container
- Attach MCPs
- Extend execution capabilities
- Wire external systems (e.g., n8n)

OmniDev does not obscure or restrict this control. Power-user access is a feature.

## Testing

```bash
pnpm test           # Run all tests
pnpm test:watch     # Watch mode
pnpm test:coverage  # With coverage report
```

## Security

- Sandbox isolation for Claude Code execution
- URL validation for repository cloning
- Configurable workspace size limits
- Token-based access control
- Path traversal protection

## Contributing

This repository is currently **read-only**. Issues and pull requests are not open at this time.

The project is in active development. Contribution guidelines will be published when the project is ready to accept external contributions.

### Architectural Constraints (For Future Contributors)

When contributions open, they must:

- Preserve single-bot assumptions
- Avoid adding opinionated workflow coupling
- Keep Claude Code as a dependency, not a fork
- Maintain deploy-anywhere compatibility

Any contribution that introduces bot multiplicity, hardcodes workflows, or assumes hosted execution will be treated as architecturally invalid unless explicitly approved.

### Development Guidelines (For Future Contributors)

- Follow TypeScript strict mode
- Write comprehensive tests
- Use conventional commits
- Update documentation
- Return `Result<T, E>` for fallible operations

## Design Philosophy

When in doubt, prefer:

- **Control** over convenience
- **Composability** over magic
- **Transparency** over abstraction
- **Infrastructure patterns** over product gimmicks

**Guiding rule:** OmniDev adapts to developer workflows, not the other way around.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License — see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code) — AI execution backend (bring your own subscription)
- [GitLab](https://gitlab.com) / [GitHub](https://github.com) — Repository hosting
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) — Application framework
- [HeroUI](https://heroui.com) — UI components
- [simple-git](https://github.com/steveukx/git-js) — Git operations

---

OmniDev is an orchestration layer. Claude Code provides the intelligence. Users bring their own AI subscription.

Commit message:

Update documentation to reflect project name change from OmniDev to Omnidev
- Standardized the project name across various documentation files, including CLAUDE.md, README.md, and related templates, ensuring consistent branding.
- Adjusted headings and references to maintain clarity and coherence throughout the documentation.

README.md, after:

# Omnidev

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/slaguardia/omnidev?style=social)](https://github.com/slaguardia/omnidev)

A single developer bot orchestration runtime that spans many workspaces, adapts to user-defined workflows, runs anywhere, and uses the user's own Claude Code subscription for intelligence and execution.

## What is Omnidev?

Omnidev is a **developer automation platform** and **workflow orchestration runtime**. It provides a web UI for managing Git workspaces and integrating with Claude Code CLI for AI-powered code analysis and editing.

| Attribute       | Description                                                    |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Category        | Developer automation platform / workflow orchestration runtime |
| Bot Model       | One bot identity spanning many workspaces                      |
| Execution Scope | Workspace-scoped behavior, not bot-scoped                      |
| AI Integration  | Bring your own Claude Code subscription                        |
| Deployment      | Cloud, VPS, or local — runs anywhere                           |

### What Omnidev is NOT

- Not a SaaS AI product
- Not a multi-bot system
- Not an AI model provider
- Not a Claude Code replacement

## Claude Code Dependency

Omnidev installs and orchestrates the publicly available Claude Code package. Users must have their own Claude account and active subscription. Claude Code is a product of Anthropic PBC and is not affiliated with this project.

### Responsibility Boundaries

| Omnidev Handles                | Claude Code Handles    |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------- |
| Workflow orchestration         | Code understanding     |
| Event handling (GitHub/GitLab) | Command execution      |
| Workspace scoping              | Research and reasoning |
| Permission boundaries          | Repo-level operations  |
| Integration lifecycle          |                        |

## Features

- **Repository Management** — Clone and manage GitHub/GitLab repositories in isolated workspaces
- **AI-Powered Analysis** — Integrate with Claude Code for intelligent code review and suggestions
- **Natural Language Queries** — Ask questions about codebases in plain English
- **Workspace Isolation** — Secure temporary workspace management
- **Branch Automation** — Automatic branch creation for edits with PR/MR support
- **Deploy Anywhere** — Cloud, VPS, or local Docker deployment

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.0.0 or higher
- pnpm
- Git
- Claude Code CLI (users must have their own Claude subscription)
- Docker (optional, for containerized deployment)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/slaguardia/omnidev.git
cd omnidev
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
pnpm install
```

3. Start the application:

```bash
pnpm dev
```

4. Open `http://localhost:3000` and configure through the Settings tab.

## Configuration

### UI-Based Configuration (Recommended)

All configuration is managed through the web interface in the Settings tab:

**Required:**

- GitLab Token or GitHub Token
- Claude API Key (your own Anthropic API key)

**Optional:**

- GitLab URL (default: `https://gitlab.com`)
- Workspace limits and logging level

### Environment Variables

For environment-based configuration, copy the example file:

```bash
cp env.example .env
```

Required variables:

```env
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=your-nextauth-secret-here
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
```

Optional variables (also configurable via UI):

```env
GITLAB_TOKEN=your_gitlab_token_here
GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_token_here
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your_claude_api_key_here
```

See [docs/ENVIRONMENT.md](docs/ENVIRONMENT.md) for complete documentation.

## Docker Deployment

Omnidev is designed to run anywhere — cloud infrastructure, VPS, or local environments.

### Deployment Modes

| Service             | Purpose                                    | Command                                              |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `workflow-app`      | Full application with auth and dashboard   | `docker compose up -d --build workflow-app`          |
| `workflow-showcase` | Read-only demo mode (no auth, no dashboard) | `docker compose --profile showcase up workflow-showcase --build` |
| `workflow-dev`      | Development with hot reload                | `docker compose up -d --build workflow-dev`          |

- **workflow-app**: Production deployment. Includes authentication, dashboard, and all features. Use this for self-hosting.
- **workflow-showcase**: Public demo mode. Hides auth and dashboard, shows only documentation. Use this for publishing a read-only demo.
- **workflow-dev**: Development mode with hot reload. Bind-mounts source code for fast iteration.

### Quick Start with Docker

```bash
docker compose up -d --build workflow-app
```

Access the application at `http://localhost:3000`.

### Docker Features

- Ubuntu-based for full Claude Code compatibility
- Multi-stage build for optimized image size
- Runs as non-root user for security
- Workspace data persistence via volumes
- Built-in health checks

### Manual Docker Commands

```bash
docker build -t omnidev .

docker run -p 3000:3000 \
  -v omnidev_workspaces:/app/workspaces \
  omnidev
```

See [docs/DOCKER.md](docs/DOCKER.md) for detailed Docker documentation.

## Architecture

### Core Components

| Component                | Purpose                               |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------- |
| Workspace Manager        | CRUD for git workspaces               |
| Repository Manager       | Git clone/branch operations           |
| Claude Code Orchestrator | Execute Claude Code CLI               |
| Job Queue                | Async job execution                   |
| GitHub/GitLab API        | PR/MR creation, repository operations |

### Type System

The project uses branded types for type safety:

```typescript
type WorkspaceId = string & { readonly brand: unique symbol };
type GitUrl = string & { readonly brand: unique symbol };
type FilePath = string & { readonly brand: unique symbol };
```

Operations that can fail return `Result<T, E>`:

```typescript
type Result<T, E = Error> = { success: true; data: T } | { success: false; error: E };
```

## Extensibility

Users may:

- Shell into the container
- Attach MCPs
- Extend execution capabilities
- Wire external systems (e.g., n8n)

Omnidev does not obscure or restrict this control. Power-user access is a feature.

## Testing

```bash
pnpm test           # Run all tests
pnpm test:watch     # Watch mode
pnpm test:coverage  # With coverage report
```

## Security

- Sandbox isolation for Claude Code execution
- URL validation for repository cloning
- Configurable workspace size limits
- Token-based access control
- Path traversal protection

## Contributing

This repository is currently **read-only**. Issues and pull requests are not open at this time.

The project is in active development. Contribution guidelines will be published when the project is ready to accept external contributions.

### Architectural Constraints (For Future Contributors)

When contributions open, they must:

- Preserve single-bot assumptions
- Avoid adding opinionated workflow coupling
- Keep Claude Code as a dependency, not a fork
- Maintain deploy-anywhere compatibility

Any contribution that introduces bot multiplicity, hardcodes workflows, or assumes hosted execution will be treated as architecturally invalid unless explicitly approved.

### Development Guidelines (For Future Contributors)

- Follow TypeScript strict mode
- Write comprehensive tests
- Use conventional commits
- Update documentation
- Return `Result<T, E>` for fallible operations

## Design Philosophy

When in doubt, prefer:

- **Control** over convenience
- **Composability** over magic
- **Transparency** over abstraction
- **Infrastructure patterns** over product gimmicks

**Guiding rule:** Omnidev adapts to developer workflows, not the other way around.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License — see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code) — AI execution backend (bring your own subscription)
- [GitLab](https://gitlab.com) / [GitHub](https://github.com) — Repository hosting
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) — Application framework
- [HeroUI](https://heroui.com) — UI components
- [simple-git](https://github.com/steveukx/git-js) — Git operations

---

Omnidev is an orchestration layer. Claude Code provides the intelligence. Users bring their own AI subscription.
